# LESS PEOPLE
Always less is more, even when talking about people.

Don't get me wrong, I love people but when it comes to software projects (and I'm sure in other areas as well) not always having more people will produce more results. Choose quality over quantity and if you don't find the right person to do something keep looking, or probably change the way you interview.

It's very common to see people interviewing with the same list of questions for all candidates. We're all different so having a set of predefined questions will always lead you to lack of accuracy results. Explore the person asking non technical questions at the beginning, create the circumstances for them to talk about what motivates them and introduce little technical questions on the way of getting more technical. Make them feel happy and comfortable so they'll respond with what they really know, pressing someone with difficult questions and making they feel nervous it's just stupid they'll not answer properly and you wont get the right results you're looking for. Put yourself in a situation making feel them you're same as them, not any higher so that creates the circumstances to see who they really are.

Put people to work on what they really enjoy so they'll naturally be focused and produce much better results. The key for a product to succeed is about people feeling motivated. You can have a great idea but if no one feels attracted to what they're doing you'll never make your idea really happen. A single feature in a product can lead it to the success of it and that kind of features are born from the inside mind of someone feeling motivated. That motivation produces people to work hard, to work more and that feature could be born out of regular working hours. No one will continue thinking and working out of regular hours if they're not motivated. Don't press people to make them work more, that produces nothing but stress. Create the circumstances to make them feel engaged and they'll naturally work more. Not just in front of the computer, they'll wake up thinking on the product they're building.

Having the right people is not easy and is not fast but when you get them, they'll stay with you, they will be really profitable so always choose just the right ones for what they have to do and leave them create, hear them, show to them you're interested on their ideas and make great co-workers's ideas happen, that is priceless.

I've been involved in projects with 10 people in which just three of them do more than the seven remaining ones. It's very common to hear managers or c-level people stick to the fact that they always need more resources and the reason is they're hiring the wrong ones, they're in an illusional rush to hire which is not always right. When you hire someone that person needs an on-boarding, needs deep code reviews, needs attention, needs time so make sure you're investing it in the right people, otherwise they will always be expensive. Juniors with the wrong motivation are usually more expensive. Time is never recovered, money does, have that in mind.
